Conditional-PixelCNN-decoder-master/README.md, before:

# Image Generation with Gated PixelCNN Decoders

This is a Tensorflow implementation of [Conditional Image Generation with PixelCNN Decoders](https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.05328) which introduces the Gated PixelCNN model based on PixelCNN architecture originally mentioned in [Pixel Recurrent Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1601.06759). The model can be conditioned on latent representation of labels or images to generate images accordingly. Images can also be modelled unconditionally. It can also act as a powerful decoder and can replace deconvolution (transposed convolution) in Autoencoders and GANs. A detailed summary of the paper can be found [here](https://gist.github.com/anantzoid/b2dca657003998027c2861f3121c43b7). 

These are some conditioned samples generated by the authors of the paper:

![Paper Sample](images/conditioned_samples.png)

## Architecture

This is the architecture for Gated PixelCNN used in the model: 

![Gated PCNN](images/gated_cnn.png)

The gating accounts for remembering the context and model more complex interactions, like in LSTM. The network stack on the left is the Vertical stack that takes care of blind spots that occure while convolution due to the masking layer (Refer the Pixel RNN paper to know more about masking). Use of residual connection significantly improves the model performance.

## Usage

This implementation consists of the following models based on the Gated PixelCNN architecture:

- **Unconditional image generation**:  
    ```
    python main.py
    ```

    Sample generated by training MNIST dataset after 70 epochs with a cross-entropy loss of 0.104610:

    ![Unconditional image](images/sample.jpg)

- **Conditional image generation based on class labels**: 
    ```
    python main.py --model=conditional
    ```

    As mentioned in the paper, conditionally generated images are more visually appealing though the loss difference is almost same. It has a loss of 0.102719 after 40 epochs:
    
    ![Conditional image](images/conditional.gif)
    
- **Autoencoder with PixelCNN decoder**: 
    ```
    python main.py --model=autoencoder
    ```

    The encoder part of the autoencoder has the original architecture as mentioned in [Stacked Convolutional Auto-Encoders for Hierarchical Feature Extraction](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/1c6d/990c80e60aa0b0059415444cdf94b3574f0f.pdf). The representation is encoded into 10d tensor. The image generated after 10 epochs with a loss of 0.115306:

    ![AE image](images/ae_sample.jpg)

To only generate images append the `--epochs=0` flag after the command. 

To train the any model on CIFAR-10 dataset, add the `--data=cifar` flag.

Refer `main.py` for other available flags for hyperparameter tuning.

## Training Details

The system was trained on a single AWS p2.xlarge spot instance. The implementation was only done on MNIST dataset. Generation of samples based on CIFAR-10 images took the authors 32 GPUs trained for 60 hours.

To visualize the graph and loss during training, run: 
```
tensorboard --logdir=logs
```

Loss minimization for the autoencoder model: 

![Loss](images/loss.png)

Commit message:

Added more custom augm to classifier. Started cleaning up code; PixelCNN done.

Conditional-PixelCNN-decoder-master/README.md, after:

# Custom README for CIL project

The code was downloaded from [here](https://github.com/tillns/CIL_project/tree/master/Conditional-PixelCNN-decoder-master). We crossed out the MNIST and CIFAR10 options and replaced them with the stars dataset. The dataset may be created with the star_extractor project. However, another dataset (of 28x28 pixels) may be used. The model can be used in either conditional or uncoditional setting, the autoencoder setting does nnot work. The training can be started with
- **Unconditional image generation**:  
    ```
    python main.py
    ```

- **Conditional image generation based on class labels**: 
    ```
    python main.py --model=conditional
    ``` 
- **Model trained on different data path**: 
    ```
    python main.py --data_path=custom/data/path
    ``` 

Please note that a different data directory has to contain directly the images of size 28x28 for the unconditional setting and one folder for each category including the images of size 28x28 for the conditional setting.

Now follows the original README from the code:

# Image Generation with Gated PixelCNN Decoders

This is a Tensorflow implementation of [Conditional Image Generation with PixelCNN Decoders](https://arxiv.org/abs/1606.05328) which introduces the Gated PixelCNN model based on PixelCNN architecture originally mentioned in [Pixel Recurrent Neural Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1601.06759). The model can be conditioned on latent representation of labels or images to generate images accordingly. Images can also be modelled unconditionally. It can also act as a powerful decoder and can replace deconvolution (transposed convolution) in Autoencoders and GANs. A detailed summary of the paper can be found [here](https://gist.github.com/anantzoid/b2dca657003998027c2861f3121c43b7). 

These are some conditioned samples generated by the authors of the paper:

![Paper Sample](images/conditioned_samples.png)

## Architecture

This is the architecture for Gated PixelCNN used in the model: 

![Gated PCNN](images/gated_cnn.png)

The gating accounts for remembering the context and model more complex interactions, like in LSTM. The network stack on the left is the Vertical stack that takes care of blind spots that occure while convolution due to the masking layer (Refer the Pixel RNN paper to know more about masking). Use of residual connection significantly improves the model performance.

## Usage

This implementation consists of the following models based on the Gated PixelCNN architecture:

- **Unconditional image generation**:  
    ```
    python main.py
    ```

    Sample generated by training MNIST dataset after 70 epochs with a cross-entropy loss of 0.104610:

    ![Unconditional image](images/sample.jpg)

- **Conditional image generation based on class labels**: 
    ```
    python main.py --model=conditional
    ```

    As mentioned in the paper, conditionally generated images are more visually appealing though the loss difference is almost same. It has a loss of 0.102719 after 40 epochs:
    
    ![Conditional image](images/conditional.gif)
    
- **Autoencoder with PixelCNN decoder**: 
    ```
    python main.py --model=autoencoder
    ```

    The encoder part of the autoencoder has the original architecture as mentioned in [Stacked Convolutional Auto-Encoders for Hierarchical Feature Extraction](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/1c6d/990c80e60aa0b0059415444cdf94b3574f0f.pdf). The representation is encoded into 10d tensor. The image generated after 10 epochs with a loss of 0.115306:

    ![AE image](images/ae_sample.jpg)

To only generate images append the `--epochs=0` flag after the command. 

To train the any model on CIFAR-10 dataset, add the `--data=cifar` flag.

Refer `main.py` for other available flags for hyperparameter tuning.

## Training Details

The system was trained on a single AWS p2.xlarge spot instance. The implementation was only done on MNIST dataset. Generation of samples based on CIFAR-10 images took the authors 32 GPUs trained for 60 hours.

To visualize the graph and loss during training, run: 
```
tensorboard --logdir=logs
```

Loss minimization for the autoencoder model: 

![Loss](images/loss.png)
